# Response to Blumenstock

# Don't Forget People in the use of big data for development Nature: Sept. 2018

Lydia Troup
January 27

Blumenstock believes "designing data-enabled applications that work in the real world will require a slower approach that pays much more attention to the people behind the numbers," meaning effective data science must work slowly to ensure people are protected. Essentially, he believes big data could aid international development if used properly.
This claim is supported by the potential applications of existing data science and algorithms. Algorithms commonly used for big tech companies could be repurposed to help those in need; instead of matching ads to the consumer, they could match resorces to those in need.
  It is important that data sciences work carefully, because there are a variety of potential problems with big data. Unexpected outcomes, drawn from lack of knowledge in those targeted, can further the divide between the rich/empowered and the poor. Additionally, outcomes from digital data collection methods are inconsistent. For example, the correlation between wealth and quantity of international phonecalls differs throughout Africa. Algorithms based of digital data can be biased as well, as one must have a digital presence via smartphones or Facebook to produce data. Thus those most in need of development aid are often excluded. Lastly, digital data collection is unregulated by government agencies and generally collected and owned by private companies.
  Blumenstock believes it is important to address the pitfalls. He states digital data should accompany the conventional data in order to ensure all individuals are included. Contextualization is important aswell, most digital data is made by and for first-world countries, meaning it's outcomes cannot always be applied to developing countries. To solve this, data collected in developing countries has to be contextualized within the environment it was collected in. Because of how daunting using digital data for human development is, Blumenstock stresses the importance of collaboration. Creating conferences and networks are one way to accomplish this.
  I think there is value to using big data and digital data alongside conventional survey data for human development. Using the two together yield a comprehensive look at levels of development across the globe. However, it is important to use the data carefully, because it is so easy for development projects to go wrong. The importance of conventional data cannot be overlooked when it is often the only data available for the very poor. Transparancy is also something very important that is often overlooked, and that this artcle mostly ignores. Regulation of the private companies using this data could be helpful to ensure data is used responsibly. People should be informed of who is using what data from them and why. Although, this data collection is incredibly important for human development projects and should still be collected.
